.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

# Pull Request Title
## Fixes \#(your issue number)

<br>

# Change Description
<em>
Please write a summary of the change and specify which Issue this fixes. This should cover the motivation for making the change and provide almost enough context to review the change in isolation. While the issue description is a good place to discuss the failure/requirements, this is the ideal space for explaining why this design fixes the issue and why you designed it the way you did.

<br>

- If there are important design decisions, particularly those that leverage functionality outside this change or were caused by existing limitations, they should be noted here.
- If there is a design specification which relates to this PR, please provide a link to it here.
- If there are any dependencies (third-party or internal downstream) which are added or impacted, please note them here. And if their limitations informed your design, please note how they did so here (particularly if this information was not captured in a design specification).
</em>

Text goes here




<br>

# Test Description
<em>
Please describe the tests you have written that verify the enhancement works or that the bug fix has been remedied. For a bug fix, please ensure a complete description of the failure is available here or in the issue such that a reviewer can verify that the testing is suitable. This is a good place to highlight any manual testing you may have had to perform. 

Please describe any operating system limitations placed on the testing (if appropriate).

If your tests fix bugs, please explain that in the comment you provided in the test file and please record the mapping here e.g.
- testA fixes issue 404
- testB fixes issue 999
</em>

Text goes here




<br>

# Documentation Impact
<em>
Please describe any changes to the documentation not captured above or, if made in a seperate pull request, please link to the corresponding PR or issue. 
</em>

Text goes here





<br>

# Other Details
<em>
If you have run any static analysis, including complexity analysis, or run coverage testing which has not been captured by an automated tool, please link or copy it here.
</em>

Text goes here




<br>
<hr>

### Pre-Request Checklist

- [  ] The requirements of this pull request are fully captured in an issue or design specification and are linked and summarised in the description of this PR
- [  ] No new warnings are generated
- [  ] The documentation has been updated (or an issue has been created to track the corresponding change)
- [  ] Methods and Tests are commented such that they can be understood without having to obtain additional context
- [  ] This PR/Issue is labelled as a bug/feature/enhancement/breaking change
- [  ] File dates have been updated to reflect modification date
- [  ] This change conforms to the conventions described in the README




<em>
Please complete your pull request description and delete the instructional text before submitting.
</em>
<br><br>
<em>
Congratulations and thank you for making your contribution to neXtSIM_DG!
</em>

Commit message:

Add line to Change Description covering linking to open Issue number

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

# Pull Request Title
## Fixes \#(your issue number)

<br>

# Change Description
<em>
Please write a summary of the change and specify which Issue this fixes. This should cover the motivation for making the change and provide almost enough context to review the change in isolation. While the issue description is a good place to discuss the failure/requirements, this is the ideal space for explaining why this design fixes the issue and why you designed it the way you did.

<br>

- If there are important design decisions, particularly those that leverage functionality outside this change or were caused by existing limitations, they should be noted here.
- If there is a design specification which relates to this PR, please provide a link to it here.
- If the PR relates to an open issue issue, please link the issue to the PR by using the 'closes #issue_number' syntax.
- If there are any dependencies (third-party or internal downstream) which are added or impacted, please note them here. And if their limitations informed your design, please note how they did so here (particularly if this information was not captured in a design specification).
</em>

Text goes here




<br>

# Test Description
<em>
Please describe the tests you have written that verify the enhancement works or that the bug fix has been remedied. For a bug fix, please ensure a complete description of the failure is available here or in the issue such that a reviewer can verify that the testing is suitable. This is a good place to highlight any manual testing you may have had to perform. 

Please describe any operating system limitations placed on the testing (if appropriate).

If your tests fix bugs, please explain that in the comment you provided in the test file and please record the mapping here e.g.
- testA fixes issue 404
- testB fixes issue 999
</em>

Text goes here




<br>

# Documentation Impact
<em>
Please describe any changes to the documentation not captured above or, if made in a seperate pull request, please link to the corresponding PR or issue. 
</em>

Text goes here





<br>

# Other Details
<em>
If you have run any static analysis, including complexity analysis, or run coverage testing which has not been captured by an automated tool, please link or copy it here.
</em>

Text goes here




<br>
<hr>

### Pre-Request Checklist

- [  ] The requirements of this pull request are fully captured in an issue or design specification and are linked and summarised in the description of this PR
- [  ] No new warnings are generated
- [  ] The documentation has been updated (or an issue has been created to track the corresponding change)
- [  ] Methods and Tests are commented such that they can be understood without having to obtain additional context
- [  ] This PR/Issue is labelled as a bug/feature/enhancement/breaking change
- [  ] File dates have been updated to reflect modification date
- [  ] This change conforms to the conventions described in the README




<em>
Please complete your pull request description and delete the instructional text before submitting.
</em>
<br><br>
<em>
Congratulations and thank you for making your contribution to neXtSIM_DG!
</em>
