docs/getting_started.rst, before:

.. Copyright (c) 2021, Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Center

.. raw:: html

Getting Started
===============

This short guide explains how to get started with nextsimdg once you have installed it with one of the methods described in the `Installation`_ section.

Simple Example
--------------

To run the simple example you need a configuration file and a restart file.

Configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Control of nextsimdg is done using configuration files. One or more of these can be specified on the command line using the ``--config-file`` (for a single file) or ``--config-files`` (for several files) options. 

These files specify the configuration of the model, including the initial restart file ``model.init_file`` and the start ``model.start``, stop ``model.stop`` and time step ``model.time_step`` values, formatted as simple integers. 

An example of a configuration file ``simple_example.cfg`` can be found in the ``run`` directory.

Initial file
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of the 0.1.0 release, the model operates on a simple fixed 10x10 grid of data.  

The initial file can be generated using the Python script ``make_init.py`` available in run. Be sure to have installed python and the netCDF4 library (see `Installation`_ section) and run it with ``python make_init.py``. This generates an initial restart file ``init.nc`` of the correct format, which is a netCDF file of the correct structure. The desired data can be provided by editing the python script.

An example of a configuration file ``init.nc`` can be found in the ``run`` directory.

Running the model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All is happenning in the ``run`` directory : you have the configuration file and the restart file there, you need to make a link to the compiled model ``nextsim``: ``ln -sf ../build/nextsim`` (we assume you already compiled it with one of the methods described in the `Installation`_ section).

With the value of the ``model.init_file`` variable set to the name of the correct initialization file, add the name of the configuration file as a ``config-file`` argument to the command line and execute. 

An example of a launching script ``run_example.sh`` can be found in the ``run`` directory, be sure it is executable (``chmod +x run_example.sh``) before executing it.

The model will produce an output file named ``output.nc``. The results of applying the model physics to the initial data over the specified number of time steps will be found here.

.. _Installation: https://nextsim-dg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html

Commit message:

suggest edit in getting_started.rst related to initial state file name
Mostly replaced "initial restart file" by initial state file.

docs/getting_started.rst, after:

.. Copyright (c) 2021, Nansen Environmental and Remote Sensing Center

.. raw:: html

Getting Started
===============

This short guide explains how to get started with nextsimdg once you have installed it with one of the methods described in the `Installation`_ section.

Simple Example
--------------

To run the simple example you need a configuration file, where the model settings are defined, and a file of the initial state from which to start the simulation.

Configuration file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The control of nextsimdg is done using configuration files. One or more of these can be specified on the command line using the ``--config-file`` (for a single file) or ``--config-files`` (for several files) options. 

These files specify the configuration of the model, including the start ``model.start``, stop ``model.stop`` and time step ``model.time_step`` values, formatted as simple integers (in days, days and seconds, resp.), and file of the initial state  ``model.init_file``. 

An example of a configuration file ``simple_example.cfg`` can be found in the ``run`` directory.

Initial file
~~~~~~~~~~~~

As part of the 0.1.0 release, the model operates on a simple fixed 10x10 grid of data.  

The initial state file can be generated using the Python script ``make_init.py`` available in the ``run`` directory. Be sure to have installed python and the netCDF4 library (see `Installation`_ section) and run it with ``python make_init.py``. This generates a file for the initial state ``init.nc`` of the correct format, which is a netCDF file of the correct structure. The desired data can be provided by editing the python script.

An example of a configuration file ``init.nc`` can be found in the ``run`` directory.

Running the model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All is happenning in the ``run`` directory : you have the configuration file and the initial state file there, you need to make a link to the compiled model ``nextsim``: ``ln -sf ../build/nextsim`` (we assume you already compiled it with one of the methods described in the `Installation`_ section).

With the value of the ``model.init_file`` variable set to the name of the correct initial state file, add the name of the configuration file as a ``config-file`` argument to the command line and execute. 

An example of a launching script ``run_example.sh`` can be found in the ``run`` directory, be sure it is executable (``chmod +x run_example.sh``) before executing it.

The model will produce an output file named ``output.nc``, which contains the result of applying the model physics to the initial state over the specified number of time steps.

.. _Installation: https://nextsim-dg.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html
